---
layout: post
title: "Weekly Recap: Sept 4 - 10"
date: 2023-09-10 18:58
tags:
  - webmastery
  - reflection
  - fun
  - learning
  - food
  - weekly-recap
---

Despite enduring yet another oppressively hot week in Tokyo, I was still able to further examine agency as a means of counteracting learned helplessness, learn more about CSS flex as I refreshed my site under the hood, and meet up with a new friend. <!--excerpt-->
<br>
<br>
<b>Learning about agency:</b> The revelation of learned helplessness is still rippling through my mind, but mostly in terms of its antithesis: agency. I'm seeing agency as a theme pop up everywhere in my life, even as I read through The Artists Way, an unnecessarily theistic (it's honestly getting a bit repulsive for me) self-help book with legitimately beneficial exercises to help you unlock creativity. In an <a target="_blank" href="https://youtu.be/0wE8C-ErkcY?si=VlOuhYWJIhPRcz12">interview with Dr. Seligman</a>, Professor of Psychology in the University of Pennsylvania's Department of Psychology as well as the former president of the American Psychological Association, he explained (starting around <a target="_blank" href="https://youtu.be/0wE8C-ErkcY?si=emLhAlJHKtFxW_Ne&t=258">4:19</a>) that it doesn't matter if you do or don't have free-will, the key is that you <i>believe</i> you do. It's such an uplifting message that no matter what you're struggling with, the power lies within your perspective. From my own experience, I think the amazing thing about shifting perspective is that, unlike willpower, it has a long-term lasting impact with a lot less effort. This is something I've observed first-hand when I went vegan. I couldn't unsee my new perspective on the animal agriculture industry even though I would love to go back to my blissfully ignorant past self. My life would be <i>so</i> much easier if I wasn't vegan, but this perspective shift has been persistent despite no effort on my end to maintain it like watching vegan documentaries (I can't bare to see animals hurt, so I don't even watch those). One thing that bothers me about this so far is that this all seems a bit "pull yourself up by your bootstraps", so I want to seek out BIPOC and disabled perspectives on this to understand and acknowledge the role that systems of oppression play within this paradigm. If you have any recommendations, please drop them in my guestbook or get in touch another way.
<br>
<br>
<b>Flex-ifying my layout:</b> Until now, my layout code was a real mess. When I decided to change my layout to the space-themed one you see now, I tweaked my old one instead of coding it from scratch, which is what I should have done. Using flex to structure my layout has been on my to-do list for what feels like months, and it ended up being much easier than expected! I did end up spending hours on it, but that's just because I was trying to figure out a layout of my site that suited a three-column format. I couldn't end up justifying prominence I was giving to the two sidebars' content, so I ultimately decided to stick to my single column. Even if that didn't materialize into anything, it's definitely a confidence booster to know that I could code a three-column flex layout without issue if I ever end up wanting one. In the process of this, I also couldn't help but move a couple things around. I've put my RSS icon next to my blog link in the navigation to give that more prominence. I also deleted my Now page that I just revamped this week, moving my "find me elsewhere" links into my footer. I also added my status cafe and latest blog post to the homepage, so it looks more lively. If something looks wonky despite my QA efforts, please let me know. One last thingI would be remiss if I didn't thank <a target="_blank" href="https://pixelglade.net/resources/collections/onlineradio">pixelglade</a> for turning me on to this incredible, free site that allows you to finely tune high quality ambient soundscapes: <a target="_blank" href="https://mynoise.net/">myNoise®</a>. I spent quite a few hours coding to the Irish Coast one, finding it to be extremely effective for boosting my focus, so I wanted to share it in case it's helpful to others.
<br>
<br>
<b>Meeting up with a new friend:</b> Right before I went to Europe, I attended a knitting meetup where I just happened to sit down next to a fascinating and helpful person whom I chatted to for three hours. We really hit it off, and I told her I was in search of interchangable Addi (brand) knitting needles. She serendipitously had two sets of them with accessories, which she offered to sell me for a steep discount of only $100 USD. This is a truly shockingly low price because just one set costs $159.95 USD, according to the <a target="_balnk" href="https://www.addiclicks.com/">Addi website</a>, not including the cord-stoppers ($14.95 USD) and extra cables used to connect the needles that she wanted to throw in for free. I had to jump on the deal as soon as I was back from Europe, so we finally met up post-trip to exchange the goods. While this could have been just a quick swap, she ended up buying me dinner (an incredible all vegan enchilada, which is a dish I haven't had in more than four years!!!) and we easily talked for 5 hours! She also asked me in advance if there were any vegan American foods I wanted from the commissary on base, where she lives, which was so kind. I've been tearing my way through this hoard of all my dearly missed vegan foods that she got me, including Beyond Meat Sweet Italian Sausage and Mandarin Orange Crispy Chick'n by Gardein. It really made me wonder how much healthier of a relationship to food I would have if my options weren't so annoyingly difficult and limited here.
