---
layout: post
title: Tamagotchi Toy Doctor
date: 2024-05-27 15:54
tags:
  - tamagotchi
  - goals
  - reflection
---
The gusts of horizontal rain felt like a bad omen as I walked to the post office today, clutching my four, preciously bubble-wrapped tamagotchi in my purse. I wouldn't be deterred. I had to figure out how to mail my broken tamagotchi to a Toy Hospital.<!--excerpt--> Even though I'd never sent a package before in Japan, I was determined to just try my best for the sake of my virtual pet children. I was nervous about sending four expensive and sentimental tamagotchi to a stranger I found online, but I was confident in this toy doctor's ability because of his <a target="_blank" href="http://www.takishita.jp/toy_hospital/repare_list_table">excellent track record of fixing Devilgotchi</a>, an infamously rare tamagotchi made in 1998 with a devil character that can sell for upwards of $500 USD online. The doctor seemed very meticulous and particular about how to package and ship the broken toys and testing batteries, so I was nervous that I would not be able to follow his instructions satisfactorily, but I was utterly relieved when he replied to my tracking number email, saying that everything is in order and he would notify me when he received the tamagotchi.

I stumbled across this toy doctor while looking into how to repair my tamagotchi myself. Although I bought the fancy set of Japan Industrial Standard screwdrivers as advised by folks on the Tamagotchi Collector's discord, I quickly broke and stripped two twenty year-old, butter-soft screws instead of deftly replacing them with new 1.2 x 5mm ones for my <a target="_blank" href="https://tamagotchi.fandom.com/wiki/Tamagotchi_Osutchi_and_Mesutchi">pink mesutchi tamagotchi</a>. I figured I'd have to resort to begging a watch repair shop to extract the damaged screws since they typically deal with similarly sized screws, but I luckily discovered toy doctors in Japan! There is actually a whole <a target="_blank" href="https://www.toyhospital.org/">Japan Toy Hospital Association</a> that is made up of more than 650 toy hospitals, staffed with doctors who generously volunteer their time, knowledge, and skills to help repair such special and sentimental sources of joy for others. <a target="_blank" href="https://www3.nhk.or.jp/nhkworld/en/shows/2093003/">This heart-warming 15-minute documentary from NHK</a> does a great job of showing how seriously these doctors take their charge and what it's like working at a toy hospital. The particular doctor I chose actually used to volunteer at a toy hospital, but he has since moved and only takes domestic repair requests via mail now. He also charges a fee for all tamagotchi repairs, but I am happy to pay it if it means that I get a second chance to play with my cherished tamagotchi. Of course, he is not a miracle worker and may make mistakes, so, as a customer, I had to agree to the possible uncompensated destruction of the tamagotchi in the attempt to repair them; however, I hope my precious toys make a full recovery soon. His experience repairing them far surpasses my utter lack of it, so he is definitely my best shot at this.

As I have gotten deeper into this hobby of collecting and enjoying tamagotchi, I've definitely come to appreciate how special toys are. They deserve to be played with, not kept in plastic boxes on a collector's shelf. They also deserve to be loved and repaired because they shouldn't be treated as disposable. I'm grateful that I get to experience giving these special toys a second life because they have given me so much in return. Even the simple act of carefully hand-washing a dirty, used lanyard that came attached to a tamagotchi I purchased instilled such a deep respect for the things I own while also sparking so much joy. Although I don't have the skills yet to be a toy doctor, I hope that when I retire, I can become one to experience such feelings regularly and share them with others as well.