---
layout: post
title: 2024 Goals
date: 2024-01-10 23:26
tags:
  - goals
  - resolutions
---
As one of the event planners of the <a target="_blank" href="https://32bit.cafe/holidays2023/">32-bit Cafe's Holiday Event</a>, I really wanted to participate in it, so don't take the last minute publishing of this post as any indication of a lack of enthusiasm. I've just been a bit overwhelmed with the holidays and returning to work after 3 months of medical leave, so it took me until the last minute to write this. I wanted to share the following 2024 goals as part of the blog carnival because I've put a ton of thought and effort into them already. I hope you have a wonderful 2024 too and achieve any goals you choose!<!--excerpt-->
1. **Run 5km in 30 minutes** - I purchased a year-long subscription to Runna App, which uses statistical modeling to create running plans tailored to my running times and goals, and I plan on repeating their 5k Improvement Plan as many times as necessary to get my 5km time down to 30 minutes. I don't think I will actually manage to shave off 8 minutes from my 5km PR last year, but I don't actually care about the arbitrary time goal. I run because I promised my girlfriend and soon-to-be wife that we'd live and love each other forever, so I need to be healthy enough for that, not just physically, but mentally too. Now that I'm already into week 6 of my 8 week plan, I find that I really enjoy the process of training, especially because I am completely surprised and blown away by my capacity for limitless positive and supportive self-talk during my runs since I never speak to myself kindly outside of them.
2. **Get Italian Citizenship** - I have started working with a company to claim my blood right to Italian Citizenship. I really want a powerful EU passport as moving to and retiring in the EU is something I'd like to do within the next five years. I was quoted that the process of gathering documents for Italian citizenship will take 1.5 years, so the purpose of this goal was just to get the gears going. I'm happy to report that I've already started the process, so this goal is as complete as I can make it this year, and the year has only just begun. 
3. **Hit my retirement target one year sooner** - This just requires me to diligently exchange and transfer my weak Japanese yen into dollars for investment in the US on a monthly basis, so this should be an easy goal to hit provided that I don't forget to send my monthly transfers.
4. **Reduce mindless eating to less than twice per week** - In 2023, I found out that I'd been binge eating for years without realizing it until the algorithm magically recommended extremely relatable content from <a target="_blank" href="https://itsryannnicole.com/">Ryann Nicole</a>, a certified therapist and nutritionist who specializes in treating binge eating disorder. I've been working on re-establishing a healthy relationship with food thanks to her guided programs and resources since then, and I plan on reviewing the Hunger & Fullness Masterclass again this year to help practice being intentional and present when I'm nourishing my body while listening to my hunger and fullness cues from my body.
5. **Walk 4.38 million steps (12,000 steps per day)** - last year, my average step count was ~11,200 steps daily, so I purchased a walking pad to go under my old standing desk to help me achieve my goal and increase my focus at work. My partner and I have both found it to be a universally positive experience in terms of comfort, convenience, and usefulness for increasing focus. In almost one month, my partner has walked 31.55km in 12 hours, and I've walked 51.75km in 13.5 hours, so our usage trends bode well for 2024.  
6. **Read 25 books** - I was able to enjoy 26 books last year despite not finishing so many, so I think I'll be able to find at least 25 more books to read in 2024. I don't care how long they are, I just want well-written stories. I'm most interested in queer fantasy and sci-fi with mature, adult protagonists because I can't stand romance or young adult stories like Fourth Wing anymore. 
7. **Knit through my European yarn haul** - I have no idea how I went from knitting a sweater a week this past summer to not finishing a single project in approximately 6 months, but my knitting mojo is gone. I don't know why. I have a huge amount of yarn I need to magically turn into sweaters that I can actually wear, and it would be terribly convenient if I could do that before it gets too hot to wear them. I'm just going to aim to finish one project per month at this point and see where that gets me.