---
layout: post
title: How to play a solo TTRPG live on Twitch
date: 2024-09-19 17:59
tags:
  - fun
  - ttrpgs
  - reflection
  - learning
---
It has been more than FIFTY days since my long-running TTRPG campaign has been able to play together, and I'm holding on by a thread. My insatiable need to gamble my fate using math rocks peaked this week, so I decided to give solo RPGs another try. I didn't want to do the usual solo session--I wanted to raise the stakes by playing an entirely new-to-me TTRPG system live on Twitch. It ended up being extremely fun and rewarding, and this is how I set everything up in case you'd like to try it too.<!--excerpt-->

My first step was to learn <a target="_blank" href="https://perplexingruins.itch.io/fallen">the Fallen RPG system</a>, which is a 44-page tabletop role-playing game set in a supernatural world analogous to the 17th & 18th centuries. The best way for me to wrap my mind around all the rules was to create a fully-annotated custom character sheet in Google Slides with copious comments in the margins for all the details the book included linked to the relevant stats. This ensured I wouldn't waste time searching the source material for clarifications on stream. If I were to code the character sheet and put it on my website, all my comments could be mouse-over title text or something like that. Depending on how long Fallen has a grip on me, I may do this in the future if I really want to be extra. 

Next, I needed to write out a cheat sheet or flowchart for combat since I knew the mini adventure I'd play on stream was definitely going to involve combat. I added another slide for this to present during stream so that anyone coming into the stream could follow along easily. In my live sessions later on, I still forgot and/or misplayed some aspects of combat (going to give myself a smidgeon of grace here considering I am entirely new to this game system), but writing out all the steps I'd need to follow in my own words helped me internalize them and ensure things ran more smoothly during stream.

With my slide deck finished, I really wanted recreate the joy of seeing dice bounce all over the screen as well as the joy of rolling dice with friends, so I needed a digital dice roller that could be hooked up to Twitch chat and used as an overlay. Thanks to <a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AbqvaBUm3L8&ab_channel=Captainx_xMorgan">Captainx_xMorgan's video on how to do just that</a>, I was able to connect <a target="_blank" href="https://dddice.com/">dddice.com as my digital dice roller</a> with <a target="_blank" href="https://streamer.bot/">Streamer Bot</a>, using just a little C# code. I then had to set up a bunch of commands in Streamer Bot to be triggers to roll the dice, which was simple enough and covered in Captain Morgan's video. The tricky part was figuring out how to set up the rolls as redeems because I refuse to turn on Twitch affiliate mode to monetize my stream because it'll make my taxes even more complicated. I eventually brainstormed an idea to set up the rolls as unique items in my stream elements shop, which could be redeemed for stream elements points that viewers accumulate over time like channel points. Setting up the Streamer Bot trigger to be part of the stream elements redeem confirmation message enabled the whole backend chain to work correctly, so I was nearly ready to stream at that point. It was quite tedious to set up all these redeemable items, trigger commands, and actions for each type of roll (1d6, 2d6, 1d10, 2d10, etc.) I was going to need, but the final effect of seeing those dice roll around was really worth it. I also have to give a shoutout to my wife who programmed my custom stream bot, which could roll number of any type of dice for me as it came in handy when I needed to roll unexpected dice quantities and values that I didn't have a chance to set up prior to stream.

Once I had OBS set up with a browser source capture of my slide deck window and adjusted mic settings (thanks again to my wife who is audio-savvy as well), I was ready to explore the world of <a target="_blank" href="https://joypeddler-games.itch.io/woods-of-despair">Woods of Despair, an introductory, solo adventure for Fallen</a>. I managed to <a target="_blank" href="https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2254179972">complete character creation and day 1 in about an hour on the first stream</a>, then get through<a target="_blank" href="https://www.twitch.tv/videos/2254716165"> combat in an hour in the second stream, covering day 2 & 3</a>. Between sessions, I wrote up a session 1 recap slide, and I handled advancement after the adventure offline. I definitely didn't do everything right, and it didn't help that I had my attention split as a result of streaming, but the whole production came together almost exactly as I had imagined, which was supremely satisfying. I'm already looking for more actual plays of Fallen to see how others handle the situations and mechanics that I think I messed up, but, on the whole, I enjoyed my solo sessions despite the occasional missed or misinterpreted mechanic, which is what's most important. If you have any recommendations for other TTRPG systems that lend themselves to solo-play, please drop me a guestbook message, webmention, or a toot on mastodon. Thanks in advance!