---
layout: post
title: How I healed from trauma that defined my life for more than two decades
date: 2024-07-04 18:37
tags:
  - adulting
  - mental-health
  - self-reflection
  - learning
---
Over the span of ten days, joining an RPG-style app that gamified my habits led to me sobbing uncontrollably in my living room, overwhelmed with the relief of healing more than two decades-old trauma by myself on an otherwise unremarkable and utterly random Tuesday night. This is the story of how that escalated so quickly.<!--excerpt-->

To set the stage, it's important to note that, for as long as I can remember, my deepest psychological wound has been a core part of me. Accepting its seemingly permanent impact on my life felt like my only option because finding a good, English-speaking therapist in Japan felt as impossible as confronting the trauma by myself. My resigned acceptance allowed me to keep living, so I figured I had worked out a solution that would be good enough until I moved to another country where I could find a therapist sometime in the indefinite, unknowable future--at least that was the story I kept telling my partner and myself even though I have been privileged to afford tele-therapy with American therapist at any point during the past five years I've lived in Japan. My partner probably knew that too, but she probably also knew that pointing that out wouldn't change anything. Maybe we both sensed that, at my core, I didn't believe I would ever heal from this, so I was just never going to try. There was no point pushing the issue.  

At the start of June, I was drafting a very different blog post about how to make the most of unstructured days as someone with ADHD. During my info gathering phase, I came across <a target="_blank" href="https://habitica.com/profile/361f8081-5803-4244-9fad-b4c8224b53c4">Habitica</a>, a website and app that gives you EXP, HP, mana, loot, skill points, etc. to improve your avatar for each habit, daily task, and to-do that you complete. They even have party quests where you defeat bosses as a group, pets that you can grow into mounts for your avatar, and more. I'm an unabashed RPG nerd who loves to make number go up, so I joined it immediately, then got extremely addicted.  

Even though I'm just a little enby goblin now, my type-A overachiever girlie pop tendencies die hard. This means that I'm not unaware of nor immune to aspirational "That Girl" content online. Within a day of joining Habitica, I was leveling up at breakneck speed, earning points from waking up at 4am, running or walking my way to 12,000 daily steps, having a high-protein, balanced breakfast, maintaining a spotless home, reading, flossing, meditating, journaling, and doing multiple meditations all before 7am. I went from listless to That Girl at a speed that would give most whiplash, but I was loving it. I couldn't wait for the cron job to reset my tasks at midnight, so I could wake up the next day and do it all over again. Going to bed each night felt like Christmas eve. 

One of the books that I was tearing through in my morning reading and journaling sessions was <a target="_blank" href="https://theholisticpsychologist.com/how-to-do-the-work/">How To Do The Work by Dr. Nicole LePera</a>. One of the first practices that she emphasizes is called *"Future Self Journaling"* where you 1) witness the ways you're engaging in stuck patterns of behavior that no longer serve you, 2) set an intention to change, and 3) write out the small steps you're going to take today to act instead in alignment with whatever your new intention is. This exercise is intended to rebuild trust with yourself and reassure yourself that you are capable of change and taking care of yourself. Although I was answering these prompts every morning and following through with them each day, I was also making and following through on 40+ other small promises I had made to myself in the form of all the other tasks I had added to the Habitica app as part of my morning and night time routines. I was accidentally and inadvertently speed running rebuilding trust with myself, and it was working. 

For the first time since March, I was feeling confident and capable. I was even hopeful that I could maybe start liking myself when, for years, all I had aimed for was just not bitter and vicious self-contempt. But, it had only been a couple days, so my wife and I chalked up it all up to possibly being a manic episode, which I should bring up in my next appointment with my doctor in order for us to adjust my bipolar medication dosage. Yet, I couldn't ignore part of me that knew something was different this time. There were deep, internal shifts happening that I had never felt before.  

After a few days, I could feel my feelings towards my daily habits change. The habits weren't rewarding thanks to the points and loot I was earning in-app anymore. They became rewarding because every box ticked off was actually an act of self-respect and love. In the same way that being vegan radically transformed my reality and became nearly effortless to maintain the instant I got a new perspective, maintaining my flawless completion rate of 40+ habits and daily routine tasks felt effortless too. From the moment I woke up, my whole soul was eager to prove to myself that my new mantra (*I am a loving, compassionate caretaker of myself*) was true as many times as I could throughout my day. 

Despite noticing this change, I was still extremely skeptical. I returned to the idea that this was all just a manic episode. And, if it wasn't an episode, then it was just a silly and fun ADHD hyperfixation that got me excessively motivated to do chores.

But that's the trouble of healing on my own: I am not a trained therapist; therefore, I couldn't see that all the trust and compassion I had built over little more than a week was actually exactly what I needed in order for profound healing to occur. I didn't realize the depth of my self trust and compassion because they were all new to me. I didn't realize that I was subconsciously ready to heal from any trauma let alone my deepest wounds. The only thing I knew was that healing isn't linear, but I never expected it could be exponential. 

If all the trust building I had done was creating a fertile field, <a target="_blank" href="https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCJ2fBBavCJEoQPzbMIOuQ2luJDHrWPSL&si=U30fijnhj4hReOCF">this Internal Family Systems (IFS) therapy playlist</a> was the seed that took root within. After a little more than a week playing Habitica, I set the intention to learn more about IFS, a method of therapy that kept getting mentioned in the books I had been reading. I found myself unable to focus at my computer, so I went down to the lobby of my apartment building to the study area, wearing my mask and a tote bag that held my iPad, headphones, a fountain pen, and my notebook. I set up a 60-minute pomodoro focus timer on my phone, tapped 2x speed on the first video in that playlist, and began to take notes. I suspended my skepticism and really tried to listen to what this method of therapy had to offer. As the videos played, I was surprised by feelings of deep, emotional resonance welling up within me. Some wounded part was calling out to me from whatever dark corner I had been isolating it in for years. I had to take off my mask and wipe the tears streaming down my cheeks. Suddenly, my phone buzzed. Sixty minutes were up, so I composed myself and headed back upstairs. 

As I sat at my dining table, pondering what the heck just happened, I figured one more video couldn't hurt. Reddit pointed me to <a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UNtussFaYC0&ab_channel=Wisdom2.0withSorenGordhamer">a video of the actual founder of the therapy, Dr. Richard Schwartz, performing IFS live</a>, which sounded helpful because all I had watched so far was theory. The video started like any typical expert being in conversation with a presenter/interviewer. I was half listening as I prepared dinner. About two minutes in, Dr. Schwartz asked the interviewer if he had ever been humiliated in his life, so I stopped what I was doing to sit down and pay attention, sensing that we were about to get into the live demo portion of the video. As expected, Dr. Schwartz began explaining and practicing IFS therapy live after getting consent from the interviewer. Although my trauma was entirely different from the interviewer's, I followed along in my mind with the prompts from Dr. Shwartz. I mindfully approached a "protector" who has taken over many times in the past and made me perform behaviors that stem from strategies a younger version of me developed to deal with a traumatic experience in my past. When I was mentally and emotionally able to approach that protector with compassion and curiosity, I asked it what it was afraid of and who it was protecting. Just as with the presenter on screen, my protector revealed the "exile" or wounded part of me that it had been protecting. 

Maintaining a sense of deep compassion and curiosity despite weeping profusely at this point, I was shocked to be sitting with my trauma/"exile" after ignoring it for decades. I offered a heartfelt apology for how I had left her ignored for so long. I told that distraught and isolated child version of me that I could take her away from that place where the trauma happened, and we would never have to go back here again. She said yes, so I brought her with me to Japan, to my current apartment where I'm safe and surrounded by love. The release I felt in that moment was unlike anything else I had ever felt. I gasped and sobbed as I reeled with a sense of relief that hit me everywhere at once, over and over like a concussive wave. I have no idea how long that went on, but once I had cried all that I needed to, I was left with a profound peace, equanimous and infinite.

I was initially quite skeptical that I had successfully pulled off such intense healing on my own, so I kept waiting to see if I would fall back into old patterns of harmful behavior. However, the change I've experienced in my everyday life since that moment has been surreal. I have completely replaced my former unrelenting stream of self-critical comments throughout my day with nothing but self-encouragement and support. Self-love no longer feels like unobtainable BS that people shill along side their referral codes for laxative tea--it's an effortless state of being that I just get to enjoy all the time now. Unfortunately, I don't believe that following the exact same steps that I outlined here will get you the same results, but I do hope that this long-winded blog post gives you hope if you're struggling with something similar. You can heal even if it feels impossible because you are capable of more than you know. There is still time, and here is a <a href="https://www.helpguide.org/find-help.htm">directory of international mental health helplines</a> should you need it.