---
layout: post
title: We bought a house!
date: 2025-09-16 21:13
tags:
  - adulting
  - goals
  - health
  - mental-health
  - now
---
I've wanted to update this blog with something insightful or at least thoughtful for months, but depression and getting in my own head about it prevented me from actually writing anything until now. I've decided that from now on, you will get neither thoughtful nor insightful posts here (if you ever got anything even close to that in the first place)--this blog will be merely self-indulgent, trivial updates on what I've been up to, and today's post covers the past two months of buying and moving into my first (*and last so help me Goddess*) home.<!--excerpt-->

It's been nearly two months since my last post, but I have some good excuses: I got hit with another depressive episode (I'm already back to baseline thanks to help from my psychiatrist, so don't worry--I just don't have as good a handle on my bipolar as I thought I did), and then we bought a house and moved into it. The move itself was a herculean feat of coordination with the brunt of it landing squarely on my wife's shoulders given I was depressed for most of the time leading up to the move which is exactly when many logistics needed to be coordinated. Luckily, my wife is infinitely capable, determined, and optimistic, so she stepped up without complaint or issue. Not only can she drive a box truck across town, she can also whip up a discord to coordinate across 14 folks helping with a scrappy, DIY move. I'm a very lucky spouse. 

Compared to my traumatizing move from Japan to the US where we each had to take some time to cry alone on the floor of our empty walk-in closet with the lights off, no one had a meltdown and nothing broke or got lost this time around. The actual moving day only lasted four hours, including U-HAUL pick up and drop off and two trips of loading and unloading the box truck. The first unload took less than 10 minutes, which was truly remarkable. We broke up the volunteers amongst two teams, and I was captain of the unloading team. We kept spirits high, getting to know each other (name, pronouns, astrological signs, fun facts). I even found out that one of my friends has seen two people die including their brains splatter (both were freak accidents), which is not quite a typical "fun" fact, but it was definitely on brand for them. I'm so grateful I was surrounded by friends because it's hard, maybe impossible for me to be stressed when I'm amongst them. Even if I'm depressed, my extroversion just hijacks my brain and makes me feel better instantly. This and my ability to perfectly estimate which tupperware container will exactly fit leftovers are probably my only two actual superpowers. 

Even with this positive experience though, I never, ever want to move again. Since we own this place now, or rather we owe a lot of money to a bank that owns this place technically, we won't have to unless something extremely dramatic happens. This permanence hasn't stopped me from still keeping the original boxes and styrofoam for all our fragile items like the TV and my desktop PC, a habit I picked up from renting and moving every couple of years for over a decade. It's only been three days since the move though, so I'm definitely not used to homeownership yet, much less the creaks and quirks of this home. However, it's all growing on me, and I know my partner and I will be really happy here long-term. 