---
layout: post
title: I met my younger self for coffee
date: 2025-02-12 10:14
tags:
  - reflection
---
There's this <a target="_blank" href="https://www.nme.com/news/what-is-viral-i-met-my-younger-self-for-a-coffee-tiktok-trend-who-is-doing-it-3837195">tiktok trend of meeting your younger self for coffee</a> that is basically an exploration of self-compassion and love, which felt on-theme for the <a target="_blank" href="https://32bit.cafe/vday25/">32-Bit Cafe's Valentine's Day event</a>. I wanted to write up a version of that trend in a bit more detail with a content warning for diet culture since that was something I used to struggle with a lot more when I was younger.
<!--excerpt-->
I'm sitting in the cafe off the main street in my hometown, fifteen minutes early for my appointment. Five minutes later, she walks in. She looks nearly identical to me, except that she's younger and in a well-coordinated outfit with heels. I stand up to hug her as soon as she sees me. 
"Thanks so much for meeting me today!"
We go up to the counter, and I order a soy chai, offering to get her drink as well. She orders the cheapest thing on the menu: iced hibiscus tea, no sweetener, insisting that she likes the tart taste. 
"It's cold out today--are you sure you want that iced?"
"You burn more calories trying to warm up a cold drink internally," she explains enthusiastically. 
I resist the urge to roll my eyes as a whisper from dark place asks how many calories are in the soy chai I just ordered, and I tell it that I don't know, and I don't care. I avert my eyes from the menu board that lists the answer.

We sit down and I ask her what her plans are now that she's heading to college. Like clockwork, she meticulously recites her prepared answer about her ten year plan to major in bio, go to med school, and eventually get into a top school for dermatology because dermatologist rarely have to deal with medical emergencies, so they must have better work-life balance than other doctors. She has tweaked her response to that question hundreds of times, believing that her rehearsed answer and delivery to come off as indisputable, immutable truth to help mask the fact that she knows so little about the world yet. I tell her that heeding external pressure to become "extremely successful" is a hollow, futile distraction. She'll find love and learning no matter which path she chooses, so she might as well pick one she'll actually enjoy. I smile because I recognize that I'm just echoing my father's wise advice for college that she'll soon receive: "Don't come home pregnant; don't do hard drugs; have fun."

She asks, "What do you do for fun?" She seems disappointed when I tell her I don't party much anymore, but instead meet up with nerds to collaboratively tell stories through roleplaying games as often as possible. I tell her I even want to go to this large LARP in Canada, and she interjects, "Like those losers in the park with their foam weapons?" "Yeah. They're actually super nice people," I say, knowing that she'll judge others less when her self-worth becomes less fragile over time.

She says, "I'm sorry I can't stay longer--I've got four AP exams to study for next week."
"No worries--you're going to do fine, so don't sweat it. No test score determines your worth as a person," I say even though it's clear she's going to be stressed regardless. I watch her leave through the swinging door, hoping she'll be okay and knowing that she will. I hope we meet again for coffee soon.