---
layout: post
title: "February Recap: My Month of TTRPGs"
date: 2025-03-03 09:25
tags:
  - fun
  - reflection
  - ttrpgs
---
In February, I leaned into my tabletop role-playing game (TTRPG) hyperfixation and played two to four times per week. It wasn't all D&D fifth edition though! Having played that since 2018, I am so tired of it, especially the grueling combat mechanics, so I made it my monthly mission to play tons of other TTRPG systems, including MÖRK BORG, Troika! Yazeba's Bed & Breakfast, Mothership, Blades in the Dark, Low Fantasy Gaming, and Star Wars: Edge of the Empire.<!--excerpt-->

My favorite session was playing Troika! where my questing knight character, Lady Darigan, had been kicked out of Knight School for having a non-standard issue horse named Papa Beans. Darigan hired a barrister to represent her in her legal battle against the school, but needed to accompany the lawyer to <a target="_blank" href="https://www.drivethrurpg.com/en/product/257113/the-stygian-library">The Stygian Library</a> to help retrieve the "Big Wig", a magical barrister's wig that would help them win the court case. After enabling a language spell to possess Papa Beans so he could talk, the trio made their way through deeper and deeper levels of the library, finding out along the way that Papa Beans was in fact related to the Bandersnatch they came across as well as biblically accurate Hellenic angels. This helped explain why Papa Beans had such long legs with so many joints, a beak instead of a muzzle, and hands instead of hooves. Another aspect of the party that failed to raise much concern was the lawyer's voracious appetite for pages from magical books, which grew his head into an ever expanding lightbulb shape until it could fit the Big Wig. The unstoppable trio eventually faced off with the prosecuting attorney, defeating her in battle and winning the case in the process. What made the session so hilarious and enjoyable was the DM's willingness to roll with the absolute nonsense world building and logic we as players were putting out there as well as Troika!'s adaptability as a TTRPG system and setting. I can't imagine playing that whole session in D&D5e with such fluidity, ease, and fun, but maybe that's just a lack of imagination on my part.

The DM of the Troika! session then invited me to play <a target="_new" href="https://possumcreekgames.com/pages/yazebas-bed-breakfast">Yazeba's Bed & Breakfast</a> at her house a few days later, so I took her up on the generous and flattering offer. This TTRPG was more roleplay and improv than anything I'd ever played before. At the start of a "chapter", all the players pick a character to play and receive a set of tones to hit for a series of scenes (ex: frantic) with a brief preamble, and then they are turned loose to improvise with a few token-based mechanics to bring the scene to an eventual resolution. At the table, I was nearly surrounded by professional DMs with tons of roleplaying experience, and they really helped carry me through scenes we acted out together. I was quite out of my depth as someone without any formal improv training, but the inspiring and masterful roleplay of everyone else motivated me to keep putting myself out there despite my self-doubt.

As I'm still trying to make friends in my new city, this has been an incredible opportunity to meet people as my silliest and most playful authentic self. It's also motivated me to look into taking an improv class to get better at scene work and acting too. If you're looking to get started with TTRPGs, but don't have a local scene, I recommend finding a seat at a virtual table through <a target="_blank" href="https://startplaying.games/">startplaying.games</a> or <a target="_blank" href="https://roll20.net/">roll20.net</a>. Good luck, have fun!