---
layout: post
title: 2026 Goals
date: 2025-11-28 12:09
tags:
  - adulting
  - goals
  - health
  - resolutions
---
Every year, I use the level 10 life categories from "The Miracle Morning" to spark ideas for goals  in various dimension of my life: Friends & Family, Personal Development, Finances, Fun & Recreation, Health & Fitness, etc. This year was no different except that I wanted to narrow my focus to just two goals, so I didn't get distracted or set goals that were either outside of my control or too easy to achieve.<!--excerpt-->

I won't get into every category in this post, but for friends & family, I initially wanted to see my family quarterly at least, keep attending local TTRPG meetups, keep attending home games of fellow TTRPG players, keep attending my virtual campaign, and keep in touch with my friend in NY at least weekly. All of these are already deeply engrained in my weekly schedule, so there's no point in codifying them or monitoring them; therefore, these are weak candidates for putting focused time and attention towards. For fun & recreation, I wanted to knit through my yarn stash / go on a no buy, attend one TTRPG convention like Gen Con or Gary Con, attend Bicolline LARP, and start streaming again. There's nothing particularly wrong with these goals and they would all be nice to have, but achieving them probably wouldn't make 2026 the best year ever. 

Health & fitness is the one area I've struggled with the most in the past year. I'm still adjusting my medications with my doctor to feel fully asymptomatic, but I have noticed after just five days of daily cardio, I felt more like myself than I have in the past year. For goals in this category, I wanted to hit 200 rides on my peloton I purchased this month. I also want to maintain a daily or weekly streak of usage of the peloton as well because I'm playing $50 USD/month just for the subscription. I'm on a daily streak that's already lasted more than three weeks, so I think this might be feasible. Finally, I also need to ensure I'm properly fueling myself, so I plan to also spend 10 minutes per week meal planning nourishing recipes from the <a target="_blank" href="https://plantbasedrdblog.com/">Plant Based RD</a>. Given the potential for good health to radically transform my life, I want to focus on health promoting behaviors the most, so I picked the peloton and meal planning as my two focuses for 2026.

There are a lot of ways to write "good" goals, so I took a hybrid approach to ensure my goals were NICE, using Ali Abdaal's framework, but also had some of the Relevant why mixed in from SMART goals. Here's what they look like after applying the frameworks:

**Goal 1: Do the following classes each day: warm up, cycling, cool down or cardio, meditation, or yoga class of any duration, using your peloton bike and subscription to ensure that I am continuously enjoying exercise, protecting my ability to exercise with thorough stretching, and making the most of my expensive subscription and hardware.**
- Near-term: *Do the following classes **each day**:*
- Input-based: *warm up, cycling, cool down, or cardio, yoga, or mediation class* - to allow for flexibility on bad mental or physical health days
- Controllable: *of any duration* - to allow for flexibility on bad mental or physical health days
- Energizing: *using your peloton bike and subscription* - I find the music, instructors, and streak gamification to be energizing and motivating
- Why: *to ensure that I am continuously enjoying exercise, protecting my ability to exercise with thorough stretching, and making the most of my expensive subscription and hardware.*

**Goal 2: Each week, I will meal plan at least one recipe from the Plant-based RD website, honoring any food cravings (i.e. crunchy crispy, tangy, etc.) I may have to ensure that I nourish myself adequately to maintain a high level of daily exercise without wasting food.**
- Near-term: *Each week*
- Input-based: *meal plan at least one recipe from the Plant-based RD website*
- Controllable: *at least one recipe* - if I can only find one meal I want to eat, it still counts
- Energizing: *honoring any food cravings (i.e. crunchy, crispy, tangy, etc.) you may have* - eating things I'm excited about helps me prevent food waste and ensures I actually eat the food in the first place
- Why: *to ensure that I nourish myself adequately to maintain a high level of daily exercise without wasting food*

The next step for me is to further anticipate possible failure points, so that I can adequately build in enough flexibility or resilience to help me through hard times. 

For the first goal, I definitely could get injured somehow and not be able to complete this goal. Instead of simply saying cycle for this goal, I'm building in a stretching warm up and cool down to help prevent injury. I also know my energy day to day can vary a ton, so any class duration and intensity level counts. I am also allowing myself to exercise in different modalities, so if I need to recover and build back strength, then I can do a mobility session without compromising my streak. Of course, if a doctor orders me to do no movement at all, I'll honor that, but if I can get something done, I'll definitely try.

The biggest hurdle for my meal planning goal is that I don't know what I'm going to be craving if I'll crave anything at all, so I might have to go grocery shopping while hungry, which sucks and leads to snacking on junk while I cook, which ruins my appetite. I'll make sure I keep buying fruit to have on hand in case I need to snack since that helps me hit my daily fiber goals anyways. Additional points of failure could include feeling uninspired or lazy, in which case I can always fall back on my Notion database of all the recipes I've cooked in the past, and let my partner choose one I should make. There are a lot of tried and true recipes there that aren't the most balanced, but at least it's healthier and cheaper to cook from scratch than to get take out.

Now that I've set my goals for 2026, I plan to run a weekly retrospective to see if any tweaks are needed to better align myself for success. The retrospective will be pretty similar to an agile or scrum retrospective because work habits die hard, and I've seen a lot of benefit from applying blameless postmortems and other work methods in my personal life. In the weekly retro, I plan to ask myself:
1. What went well over the past week? What were my wins?
2. What didn't go well? What were the challenges I faced? Where did I get stuck?
3. How might I approach next week differently to achieve a better outcome?

Even with a weekly retrospective, I think it can be hard to motivate myself to follow through with certain goals, but I'm hoping having my "why" stated as part of the goal will help me stay motivated. If you have any tips for staying motivated though, I'm all ears. I'm always curious about how other people plan their goals/habits and any ceremonies to maintain or tweak them throughout the year. 