---
layout: post
title: Update on Tending to Creative Pursuits
date: 2025-03-10 12:20
tags:
  - fun
  - goals
  - mental-health
  - self-reflection
  - ttrpgs
---
If you didn't read my last blog entry, I've been lacking a creative passion for quite some time, and I finally decided this past week that I'm no longer going to be passive about it. Since it has been almost a week since I started gently tending to my creative pursuits again, I wanted to write up a brief progress update as a commitment to the practice. At the start of this, I said I wasn't going to be attached to outcomes, so I'm going to frame my update in terms of feelings instead.<!--excerpt-->

I've been feeling very creatively inspired by the <a target="_blank" href="https://tomkinpress.com/pages/ironsworn-starforged">Starforged</a> duet I'm playing thanks in large part to nerding out on this book: <a target="_blank" href="https://www.drivethrurpg.com/en/product/463026/the-game-master-s-handbook-of-proactive-roleplaying">The Game Master’s Handbook of Proactive Roleplaying</a>. It laid out an incredibly useful framework for how to set up your campaign around player character goals such that you can build out factions, NPCs, locations, and encounters to be engaging for players while also being low-prep on the GMs part. TTRPGs were never that deep for me before--I used to just show up as a player and feast on whatever the DM had prepped for me. While that's still true for more deadly OSR games like MÖRK BORG where you learn to not get attached to your weak characters, it does feel like everything has shifted for long-term campaign play with a single character. I feel empowered to build worlds, help out my DMs who have been doing far too much heavy lifting, and seek out proactive play styles in future TTRPG campaigns. Almost every chapter has motivated me to immediately apply what I just learned to my Starforged duet, and my duet partner has been game for all of it. We agreed to flesh out different aspects of world building using frameworks from this book between our sessions then share and co-refine the next time we meet, giving me a ton to look forward to.

I don't want the pressure of committing to a specific set of next steps for tending to my TTRPG hobby because that just feels antithetical to my gentle approach. Instead, I will brainstorm some ideas of things I could do related to this hobby that sound fun without attaching a deadline to them:
1. Figure out if we want to use <a target="_blank" href="https://www.drivethrurpg.com/en/product/422929/mythic-game-master-emulator-second-edition">Mythic Game Master Emulator 2E</a> in our Starforged campaign by watching this <a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WLaF9W1j4bY&t=831s&ab_channel=TheRagamancers">overview of how to use it</a>, then reading and highlighting my copy of the book
2. Get more familiar with the flow of quest and combat completion in Starforged by reviewing the EXP/progress marking moves, which confused us in our first session
3. Plot out potential conflict and alliances for the Starforged campaign by fleshing out the long-term goals of NPCs/Factions and how they might align or conflict with our player character goals

While TTRPGs have been giving me a lot of the creative passion I crave, my website has only given me a little. Implementing emoji reactions on my blog posts didn't inspire any other changes to my site yet, but the overall process of tending has made me feel inclined to write this update, keeping my blog updated, so that's not nothing. I find that I'm often most inspired to make changes to my site when I'm more excited about exploring the web and seeing how other people are pushing the boundaries of what I thought was possible with static sites, so if anyone has any cool examples of websites they've been inspired by lately, please drop a link! If I don't get any recommendations, I'll revisit the blogrolls of some of my favorite sites and peruse that way when the mood strikes me.

Coming in at last place emotionally is stationery. I might have misjudged how inspiring this hobby is for me nowadays. My current utilitarian and functional planner/memory keeper routine in my Hobonichi weeks leaves no room or need for collaging with stickers and washi tape nor innovation when it comes to my spread's layout and design. Everything is simple and just works, so why bother documenting or sharing it? I've finally achieved planner peace, and it's just kind of boring here. The only thing I'm looking for at the moment is an ink that doesn't bleed through the new Tomoe River paper, and that is more annoying than inspiring. I need to investigate what I really want out of this hobby because it doesn't feel creative for me anymore, and at least that investigation sounds worthwhile and interesting to me.

Overall, it's actually kind of nice to see a spread of feelings here, and I've enjoyed reflecting in this post by celebrating what's working and figuring out how to pivot on what's not. Regardless of the outcomes I've shared here, I'm so happy that I'm actually just trying stuff again. It shouldn't surprise me that the simple act of setting a public intention inspired me to follow through with things, but I'm still impressed nonetheless. I got a lot more feedback than usual on my last post, and it was really comforting to hear others have experienced or are currently going through a rut too. It's very kind of you all who have made me, a little internet stranger, feel less alone and also reassured by all the personal practices you shared to get out of ruts. Throughout all the messages, there was a definite thread of hope, and I hope to amplify that not only today, but in future creative tending posts too.