---
layout: post
title: I Protected My Peace Too Hard
date: 2026-02-24 11:46
tags:
  - adulting
  - goals
  - health
  - cycling
  - resolutions
  - self-reflection
---
When people catch up with me and ask me what I've been up to, I give the most boring answer ever. I have nothing of note to mention, no exciting goals I'm chasing or passion projects I've been working on in my mountain of spare time. The days pass by with daily walks, peloton, cooking at home, knitting, and social media with a sprinkle of TTRPGs throughout the week. It's time to face the fact that I've protected my peace too hard, and now I'm boring--extremely comfortable, but painfully boring. I need to get out of my comfort zone more, and this is my plan to do so.<!--excerpt-->

The most major way I've gotten out of my comfort zone recently is by booking a hotel and flights to a massive, four-day convention this summer as a solo trip. Spending a lot of money on personal travel always feels frivolous because I don't need a vacation as my life is not stressful. However, I also think it's so important to try new things and to have something to look forward to aside from retirement. I'm starting to get excited for the event despite all the stress that comes with sorting out travel and logistics (where/are there vegan options, how do I optimize my time for maximal enjoyment, etc). I'll likely to get to play so many new-to-me games like jubensha, a Chinese murder mystery LARP, that I never otherwise would have, so this will be such a fun and unique opportunity.

On a more mundane note, I've settled into doing the bare minimum with my peloton efforts. Low impact 20 minute rides are my go-to nowadays. In the rare event that I complete a hard peloton ride or set a new personal record, I've noticed that I often don't hop back on the next day or even the day after that. I know my body can't meet or beat that hard effort again immediately, so I give up and don't get on the saddle. Skipping rides further reinforces the story in my head that I'm weak and can't do anything even though I just proved I was capable and powerful. It's such a dumb line of logic. With running, I would always do an easy run the day after pushing myself to help flush out my legs, and I need to apply that logic to this as well. I'm still stuck in this mindset that pushing myself to hit new records feels detrimental to my continued progress, and yet the data is undeniable: I am progressing (otherwise I wouldn't be hitting new personal bests each month). After reviewing the numbers, which I'll get into in a second, I'd really like to see a continued upward trend in terms of my total output month over month, especially as we come into spring training season for softball. Even though I'm just playing in a softball rec league and the game hardly requires any running for a team as bad as mine, I definitely could improve my cardiovascular fitness, so I'm a more powerful sprinter with a bit more endurance. 

Getting into the data, my average total output in kilojoules for a 20-min ride steadily decreased from November to January. From 91.8 to 84.67, 64.08, then bounced back up in Feb to 82.4. My average total output for a 30-min ride has been bouncing around each month: 133.57 in Nov, 123.5 in Dec, 135.33 in Jan, 121.5 in Feb. Based on this, I'm not seeing a consistent upward trend of becoming more powerful. However, when looking at the sum of total output across each month, there is some hope that I'm progressing in at least that dimension. In December, when I had to take a week off for the holidays at my parents' home, my the total output sum was 1335. In January, I hit 1581 because I was consistent about getting on the bike and just churning out low output 20-min rides even when I was struggling mentally. This month, I need to ride daily 30 min rides for the rest of the month to beat my January output, which is painful but doable. This is the first time I've ever taken a look at my peloton data, and I finally feel like striving to hit a new personal best instead of just surviving. 

With an exciting event on the horizon and a fitness goal to work towards, the only thing I'm missing is a passion project. I'm coming up completely empty on that front for now (creatively, I'm just so constipated), but at least I'm making progress on the list of things I wanted to do in my previous post. I said I wanted to become fluent in Spanish (placed a hold for Pimsleur level 1 audiobook from the library), experience vipassana (booked myself for a one-day retreat since the 10-day ones require a car), study Buddhism (borrowed a couple books by Thich Nhat Hanh from the library), attend a gaming con (all set!), go camping (no progress, too cold), and attend a multi-day LARP (no progress). Overall, I think I'm doing pretty well for February, but I'll have to keep pushing myself to do these things otherwise I'll settle back into my do-nothing comfort zone. 