---
layout: post
title: Hobbies and Gen Con
date: 2026-05-18 11:30
tags:
  - fun
  - travel
---
With it being hotter than 27C/80F all weekend, it really felt like winter is finally behind us. On Saturday, we gathered enough friends for a whole softball game, and I spent the rest of the weekend hobbling around due to plantar fasciitis. Despite the heat and my aches and pains, I still had an awesome time learning lightsaber stage combat on Sunday. I mastered some fancy saber flourishes and force choking. While this was a particularly fun weekend, most weeknights are not filled with fun plans, so I'm really trying to work on that by learning Magic The Gathering to attend a friend's weekly cube draft on Thursday nights. I think I have to practice for a few more weeks before I can join though, so I welcome any beginner resources folks want to send my way.<!--excerpt--> 

Most days I don't have plans and end up scrolling tiktok for hours. I really need to get into the habit of acting on the creative and inspiring tiktoks I've saved like the chain mail ones that have taken over my feed. I've been wanting to get into making chain mail jewelry and accessories. I think it's because we're coming up on ren faire season, but all my other works in progress (primarily knitted ones) are screaming at me to be finished, and I don't need to be spending a ton of money on new hobby supplies after I just spent more than $200 on events to attend at Gen Con.

I haven't mentioned on here that I'm going to Gen Con yet, but I am for all four days. It's my first real convention, so I'm grateful to have veteran friends who have helped me understand the hotel and event registration processes. When event registration opened on Sunday morning, I was bummed to see that all the Dungeon Crawler Carl (DCC) events I wanted to attend (except for two) sold out before I could get tickets. My friend who was 200th in the queue said they sold out before they could even buy tickets, so there was no hope for me at 4121 in line. 

I think the DCC hype at Gen Con was drummed up by the <a target="_blank" href="https://www.backerkit.com/c/projects/renegade-game-studios/dungeon-crawler-carl-rpg-unstoppable">13 million dollar (and counting) backerkit campaign for the TTRPG and boardgame</a> as well as the recent release for the eighth book in the series, *A Parade of Horribles*. Even though I've been stuck on book four for over a year now and have forgotten almost all of the characters and plot, I still really enjoy the series and attended an awesome midnight book eight release party last week. The event was so much more fun that I could have possibly expected. It started off well because I recognized a person I had met before and invited them to join me and my neighbor at our table to form a party. She ended up being very chatty with some great anecdotes, so the conversation was flowing all night. Next, my neighbor found a secret code to tell the bartender to receive a legendary loot box, so we got a pair of Carl's heart print boxers with an offer to add a free side car to any drink we got for the next hour if we wore the boxers. Then, my new friend answered a borough boss trivia question and won Princess Donut's tiara that granted 50% off her tab. She then went on to win the raffle for the legendary loot box at the end of the night, so we were the most decorated party of crawlers by the end of the night. The custom menu of drinks and food, themed pachinko game with DCC stickers, and cosplayers also added to the immersive atmosphere of the Desperado Club bar theme.

Despite missing out on all but two of the DCC events at Gen Con, I'm happy with my schedule as I think I struck the right balance between playing/participating and listening to performers and talks so my brain won't be a gelatinous cube by the end of each day. Now that everything is booked, I'm just hoping for uneventful flights and decent vegan options at the food trucks. This is the only fun trip I have planned this year, so I'm really not sparing any expense. I think I'll be safe from spending too much at the con aside from food because my stationery no buy year in 2022 kicked off a persistent hobby frugality mindset shift that has persisted to this day. I also never want to be a Game Master, so I can't justify buying games at the event's expo hall. I think that's for the best considering I made a pretty big purchase of a Switch 2 + Pokopia on April 1st and rolled credits on the game after just three weeks. I feel a little bad that I haven't really touched it much since. I wanted to unlock all the pokemon, but I also wanted to house them in cute custom homes for which I lacked the requisite material recipes. I was not about to grind time traveling or pay for Nintendo Online to get more recipes, so I think I'm effectively done with the game. Sorry to all my pokemon living in shacks and fugly prefab housing.